README.md, before:

# CPPND: Capstone Snake Game Example

This is a starter repo for the Capstone project in the [Udacity C++ Nanodegree Program](https://www.udacity.com/course/c-plus-plus-nanodegree--nd213). The code for this repo was inspired by [this](https://codereview.stackexchange.com/questions/212296/snake-game-in-c-with-sdl) excellent StackOverflow post and set of responses.

<img src="snake_game.gif"/>

The Capstone Project gives you a chance to integrate what you've learned throughout this program. This project will become an important part of your portfolio to share with current and future colleagues and employers.

In this project, you can build your own C++ application or extend this Snake game, following the principles you have learned throughout this Nanodegree Program. This project will demonstrate that you can independently create applications using a wide range of C++ features.

## Dependencies for Running Locally
* cmake >= 3.7
  * All OSes: [click here for installation instructions](https://cmake.org/install/)
* make >= 4.1 (Linux, Mac), 3.81 (Windows)
  * Linux: make is installed by default on most Linux distros
  * Mac: [install Xcode command line tools to get make](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)
  * Windows: [Click here for installation instructions](http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/make.htm)
* SDL2 >= 2.0
  * All installation instructions can be found [here](https://wiki.libsdl.org/Installation)
  * Note that for Linux, an `apt` or `apt-get` installation is preferred to building from source.
* gcc/g++ >= 5.4
  * Linux: gcc / g++ is installed by default on most Linux distros
  * Mac: same deal as make - [install Xcode command line tools](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)
  * Windows: recommend using [MinGW](http://www.mingw.org/)

## Basic Build Instructions

1. Clone this repo.
2. Make a build directory in the top level directory: `mkdir build && cd build`
3. Compile: `cmake .. && make`
4. Run it: `./SnakeGame`.

Commit message:

Update README and clean up commented out codes

README.md, after:

# CPPND: Capstone Snake Game Example

This is an extension of the [Snake Game](https://github.com/udacity/CppND-Capstone-Snake-Game) provided by Udacity. On top of the existing functionality, it also features restarting the game. By pressing ESC, player would have the option to restart or end the game.

<img src="snake_game.gif"/>

## Dependencies for Running Locally
* cmake >= 3.7
  * All OSes: [click here for installation instructions](https://cmake.org/install/)
* make >= 4.1 (Linux, Mac), 3.81 (Windows)
  * Linux: make is installed by default on most Linux distros
  * Mac: [install Xcode command line tools to get make](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)
  * Windows: [Click here for installation instructions](http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/make.htm)
* SDL2 >= 2.0
  * All installation instructions can be found [here](https://wiki.libsdl.org/Installation)
  * Note that for Linux, an `apt` or `apt-get` installation is preferred to building from source.
* gcc/g++ >= 5.4
  * Linux: gcc / g++ is installed by default on most Linux distros
  * Mac: same deal as make - [install Xcode command line tools](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)
  * Windows: recommend using [MinGW](http://www.mingw.org/)

## Basic Build Instructions

1. Clone this repo.
2. Make a build directory in the top level directory: `mkdir build && cd build`
3. Compile: `cmake .. && make`
4. Run it: `./SnakeGame`.

## Class Structure

The following classes are provided by the original repository.

- `Controller`
- `Game`
- `Renderer`
- `Snake`

A new class template `MessageBox`. `EscapeMessageBox` is a derived class from `MessageBox` representing a message box that gives player the option to restart or end the game when ESC is pressed.

## Concurrency

The original Snake Game is run on the main thread only. Here I adopt the game and make `Snake::Update` running on its own thread. `Snake::Update` is responsible for updating the position of the snake as well as growing, changing speed and direction. As long as the snake is alive and player does not request to end/restart the game, the thread will run on its own indefinitely. The main thread will be running the game and the controller. It will acquire the latest snake position, whenever a new frame needs to be rendered.
